Proposal: WIP (#3767)
chipsalliance/caliptra-sw: DPE_Context_Update_Proposal.md

# DPE Context Update Proposal

## Summary

> This proposal introduces three related changes:

Reviewer: There are two contexts I think we should handle differently.

* `RTMR` that keeps track of the Caliptra RT measurement
* `MCFW` that keeps track of the MCU FW measurement

Because both of these are owned by Caliptra Core, they should only be updated by it. We should fail if either of those measurements are being updated through `AUTHORIZE_AND_STASH`. During cold boot we should also cache the index for these in the context array so Caliptra can easily find them without needing to do a lookup by measurement ID with possible clashes

The update command should use the following lookup rule:

```text
matches = all contexts where:
  context.state != Inactive
  context.tci.tci_type == measurement_id
```

Then:

```text
matches.len() == 0:
  fail, no matching context

matches.len() == 1:
  update the matched context

matches.len() > 1:
  fail, duplicate tci_type
```

This means a stashed measurement can be updated by `measurement_id` only when that value uniquely identifies one active or retired DPE context by `tci_type`.

If that `tci_type` is duplicated, the command must fail rather than guessing which context to update.

## Update Semantics

`UPDATE_STASH` should update the matched context using extend semantics rather than replace semantics:

```text
new_tci_cumulative = SHA384(old_tci_cumulative || new_measurement)
new_tci_current = new_measurement
```

The context state must be preserved:

```text
Active remains Active
Retired remains Retired
Inactive contexts are never updated
```

## Effect on Future CDI / CertifyKey

No descendant recomputation is required.

> DPE computes the measurement hash later when a caller requests operations such as `CertifyKey` or `Sign`, by walking the context ancestry.

Reviewer: nit: CDI here instead of hash?

```suggestion
DPE computes the context CDI later when a caller requests operations such as `CertifyKey` or `Sign`, by walking the context ancestry.
```
